= Inversion User's Guide

Inversion is a templating system for Ruby. It uses the Inversion of Control principle to decouple
the contents and structure of the template from the code that uses it, making it easier to use,
test-friendly, and clean.

{Getting Started}[rdoc-ref:GettingStarted] goes over the requirements, installation, and basic usage of the library.

The rdoc-ref:Templates topic has more details about how to load templates and control their behavior with options.

When you're ready to start making your own templates, there's a quick-reference for the list of built-in rdoc-ref:Tags, too.

Finally, there are a number of {Annotated Examples}[rdoc-ref:Examples] that illustrate how to solve common problems while templating.


== Authors

* Michael Granger
* Mahlon E. Smith


== License

Copyright © 2011-2015, Michael Granger, Mahlon E. Smith
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of
  conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
  conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
  provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of the authors nor contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
  derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

